
# Docker

* Docker, initially developed by dotCloud, started as a Python script in 2008.
* By 2012, it had grown into over a hundred microservices and was codenamed Docker.
* Docker was open-sourced in 2013 and received a positive response from the community.
* Docker is an application designed to simplify the creation, deployment, and execution of applications within Linux containers.
* Docker complements Linux containers by providing powerful capabilities and functions.
* Docker offers portable deployment across machines, making applications and dependencies containerized for easy transportation and execution.
* It optimizes development for applications rather than machines.
* Docker facilitates automatic builds, allowing developers to assemble containers from source code and control application dependencies.
* Docker includes versioning, enabling tracking, comparisons, commits, rollbacks, and history for containers.
* Component reuse allows the creation of specialized images from existing containers.
* Docker encourages sharing through its public repository, Docker Hub, and supports private registries.
* Docker integrates with a vast tool ecosystem, enabling automation and customization of container deployments.
* Docker is known for its orchestration, management dashboards, configuration management, continuous integration, and more.
* Docker's core functionality is to create, deploy, and run applications inside Linux containers while enhancing developers' capabilities.
* The next step is to install Docker, covered in the following video.
* Close this video to proceed to the installation tutorial.


# installing Docker

* Installing Docker involves setting up the Docker daemon, RESTful API, and CLI.
* Docker daemon (dockerd) is a long-running process responsible for managing containers.
* The RESTful API is bundled with the Docker daemon and allows communication with the daemon.
* The Docker CLI (Command Line Interface) simplifies interaction with Docker using commands like docker run.
* Installing Docker involves configuring a repository to pull the latest version of Docker Community Edition (CE).
* Docker CE is the free version of Docker, while Docker Enterprise Edition (EE) offers additional features and support for enterprises.
* Necessary packages for Docker installation include yum-utils, lvm2, and device-mapper-persistent-data.
* The installation process confirms the GPG key fingerprint for security.
* After installation, Docker can be enabled, started, and configured to run containers.
* Adding the user to the Docker group grants permissions to create and use containers without sudo.
* Logging out and logging back in may be required for group changes to take effect.
* A basic hello-world container is used to test Docker after installation.
* Running the container fetches it from the Docker Hub and outputs a hello message.
* Docker containers can be managed using commands like docker ps and docker ps -a.
* To explore Docker further, users can follow labs and exercises to gain practical experience.
* Closing the video marks the completion of the Docker installation process.


```bash

sudo yum install -y yum-util lvm2 device-mapper-persistent-data
# this installs some packages 
# yum-util, lvm2, and device-mapper-persistent-data
# then password

sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo
# add the docker ce repo

ls /etc/yum.repo.d/
# show it's there

sudo yum install docker-ce
# install docker-ce
# yes here
# yes --install

sudo systemctl enable docker
sudo systemctl start docker
# start docker

sudo usermod -a -G docker user
grep docker /etc/group
# add docker to user group

docker run hello-world
# unable to find container
# downloads from docker hub
# then responds with hello-world

docker ps -a
# shows the image

```


# docker images

* Docker images are essential components of Docker.
* Docker images are built using Copy-On-Write (COW) technology.
* COW means that when a file change is needed in an image, a new layer is created to store that change, while other processes still share the original file.
* Docker images start with a base layer that includes binaries and libraries.
* Changes made in new layers are specific to the processes that require them.
* The Docker history command can show the layers of an image and the changes made in each layer.
* Pulling a Docker image involves fetching it from the Docker Hub or another repository.
* The Alpine image is small and quick to pull.
* HTTPD image is larger and has multiple layers.
* Docker images are versioned, and "latest" is the default version if not specified.
* Docker Hub provides information about Dockerfiles and images, making it easier to understand the contents and layers of an image.
* Understanding Docker images is important for working effectively with Docker containers.
* Closing the video marks the completion of the discussion about Docker images.


```bash

docker image pull alpine:latest
# get alpine images (alphine is quick and small)

docker history alpine
# shows us the history of the image

docker images 
# shows the images on our system

docker image pull http
# error

docker image pull httpd
# gets the newest image for httpd

docker images 
# shows our images

docker history httpd
# shows history of httpd

docker history htppd --no-trunc
# displays all the history, but this can be done on docker.com also

# hub.docker.com
# search for the image


```

# Docker Certified Associjate Prep Course 


Installing Docker
=================

Introduction
------------

Your development team has asked for a cloud server with Docker installed. To meet this requirement you need to configure the Docker repository in your environment and create a new container called "Hello World" using the Centos:6 images.

Reminder: cat /etc/issue will tell you the host operating system.

Solution
--------

1.  Begin by logging in to the lab server using the credentials provided on the hands-on lab page:
    
    `ssh cloud_user@PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS`


ssh cloud_user@54.167.129.167
I#xBR]Y3


### Confirm Packages are Installed

1.  Install the packages:
    
    `sudo yum install -y yum-utils lvm2 device-mapper-persistent-data`
    
2.  Alternatively, if the packages are likely installed, the following command can be used to verify the installation without installing the package if one is missing. Each of these commands must be run and verified individually:
    
    `rpm -qa |grep yum-utils rpm -qa |grep lvm2 rpm -qa |grep device-mapper-persistent-data`
    

### Add the Repository

1.  Add the repository:
    
    `sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo`
    
2.  Confirm the repository has been added by checking the repo directory:
    
    `ls /etc/yum.repos.d/`
    

### Install Docker

1.  Install Docker:
    
    `sudo yum install docker-ce`
    

### Enable and Start Docker

1.  Enable Docker:
    
    `sudo systemctl enable docker`
    
2.  Start Docker:
    
    `sudo systemctl start docker`
    

### Add Your User to the Docker Group

1.  Add your user to the Docker group:
    
    `sudo usermod -a -G docker cloud_user`
    
2.  Verify the addition:
    
    `grep docker /etc/group`
    
3.  Log out of the system and back in to confirm the changes.
    

### Create Your First Container

1.  Create the hello-world container:
    
    `sudo docker run hello-world`
    

Conclusion
----------

Congratulations — you've completed this hands-on lab!


# Working with Docker Images (lab)

Working with Docker Images
==========================

Introduction
------------

Time to put your Docker image skills to the test! In this lab, you will use your newfound knowledge of Docker images to pull, build, and launch containers.

Solution
--------

1.  Begin by logging in to the lab server using the credentials provided on the hands-on lab page:
    
    `ssh cloud_user@44.204.63.97`
q2Z8c*[b    



### Pull the Latest Alpine Image

1.  Pull the latest `alpine` image from Docker Hub:
    
    `docker image pull alpine:latest`
    
2.  Confirm it is there with:
    
    `docker images`
    

### Pull the Latest `httpd` Image

1.  Pull the latest `httpd` image:
    
    `docker pull httpd:latest`
    
    > **Note**: If you don't put the version, the latest version is assumed.
    

### Pull nginx 1.15

1.  Pull nginx version 1.15.
    
    `docker pull nginx:1.15`
    
2.  Confirm that it is there:
    
    `docker images`
    

### Compare the History

1.  Look at the history for both the `httpd` and `nginx` images:
    
    `docker history httpd`
    
2.  Note the following command gives an error because the latest version is assumed:
    
    `docker history nginx`
    
3.  When you specify the right version, the command succeeds:
    
    `docker history nginx:1.15`
    

Conclusion
----------

Congratulations — you've completed this hands-on lab!